# Girls Who Code AI & Sustainability Challenge
My submission for the 2024-2025 GWC AI + Sustainability Challenge

Particulate matter 2.5 (PM2.5), made of airborne particles smaller than 2.5 micrometers, is known to pose significant health risks, including respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. This project shows a critical gap in air quality forecasting: accurately predicting high PM2.5 days in specific locales like Philadelphia. Current air quality forecasts encounter the obstacle of taking spatial and time-wise changes into account, a challenge owing to the process of generalizing data to acquire representative forecast values for larger regions, which can overlook conditions specific to local areas. By using machine learning techniques such as Random Forest, Artificial Neural Networks, and Gradient Boosting, this study aims to develop a model that better accounts for these variabilities over a ten-year span (2013-2023) and twenty-five air quality monitoring sites in Philadelphia and nearby regions. The scientific value of this research can be observed from its contribution to enhancing the precision of environmental data science and air quality prediction methodologies. The improved forecasting model can significantly impact public health advisories and inform effective environmental policies, offering benefits in regional and local air quality management. The results of the model testing demonstrated an increase in the accuracy rate for all three models, after local weather data was used to train the model, data supervision techniques such as filtering data by date season, and wind direction were utilized, and a hybrid model approach was implemented in which the hybrid model chose the best performing model of its three constituents each time it was run. The Random Forest forecasting model trained on ten years of winter month weather input data initially proved to have the highest accuracy rate of 94 percent when the hybrid model was run, until the later addition of a training dataset with filtered wind direction data increased the Random Forest model’s accuracy to 95 percent. This produces a significant comparison to the 89 percent accuracy rate of the model when it was trained on ten years' worth of weather data from 2013 to 2023. Analyzing the results of the project, a conclusion was reached that early supervision of local weather data used for model training, in combination with a hybrid model machine learning approach, significantly improved the performance of the forecasting models after comparative observations were made of Philadelphia’s daily mean PM2.5. 
